README.md, before:

# DL for microscopy

A collection of scripts to perform deep-learning segmentation of bacterial cells labeled with membrane markers and the analysis of the corresponding results. Named after https://henriqueslab.github.io/resources/ZeroCostDL4Mic/ and some models were created using this ressource.

Contains scripts for image segmentation and segmentation analysis. Image segmentation is performed using one of three models:
 - Cellpose: either the general model, or our home-trained model on B. subtilis images labeled with NileRed
 - Omnipose:the general model
 - delta

Each of these three methods runs in a different virtual environment (to avoid conflicts).

# Usage

On Windows:

This offers workflows for
 - Image segmentation (folder 1_segmentation)
 - Segmentation analysis (folder 1_analysis)

Scripts to run submethods are located in corresponding subfolders. For instance, to run segmentation with omnipose, copy the images to process in the folder 1_segmentation/omnipose/to_process/ (create it if it does not exist). Then double click on `run_segmentation.bat`. A terminal should open which gives update on the progress.


# Install

This package contains several scripts that run in different virtual environments. Batch scripts can be found in subdirectories, which paths need to be updated when installed on a new computer. Installation of specific libraries within these virtualenvs is necessary. Virtual environments necessary to run these scripts include

It is required to install dl_for_mic in a virtual environment, typically using anaconda:

```
conda create -n dl_for_mic
conda activate dl_for_mic
pip install -e path
```

To avoid dependency conflicts, it is preferable to install the different segmentation libraries in different virtual environments. To run the segmentation methods with a batch script, it will be necessary to update the names and paths of virtual environments.

## omnipose
A Virtualenv necessary to run omnipose. Follow the instructions of the official page: https://pypi.org/project/omnipose/
Microsoft Visual C++ is necessary. For omnipose_custom, you also need to update the path to the custom omnipose model. Based on how it was trained, you also might need to change the parameter 'nchan'.

## cellpose
So far it is expecting a `deepseg` environment. The processing script also needs to know the path to the custom models.IT can be the same environment as dl_for_mic as cellpose is a requirement of dl_for_mic. This may change in a near future.

## delta
Expects a Virtualenv named `delta_env`. Installation is tricky and should follow the official instructions.

Commit message:

Start of the great refactoring. renaming the library to proced_deeepseg

README.md, after:

# proced-deepseg

A collection of Python scripts to perform deep-learning segmentation of bacterial cells and the analysis of the corresponding results.

![Growth of S. pneumoniae cells automatically monitored with deep learning](https://github.com/aurelien-barbotin/proced-deepseg/blob/main/illustrations/illustration_1-1.gif)

Contains scripts for image segmentation and segmentation analysis. Image segmentation is performed using one of three models:
 - Cellpose: either the general model, or our home-trained model on B. subtilis images labeled with NileRed
 - Omnipose: either the general model for phase contrast data, or the model for fluorescence imaging
 - delta

Each of these three methods runs in a different virtual environment (to avoid conflicts).

# Usage

On Windows:

This offers workflows for
 - Image segmentation (folder 1_segmentation)
 - Segmentation analysis (folder 1_analysis)

Scripts to run submethods are located in corresponding subfolders. For instance, to run segmentation with omnipose, copy the images to process in the folder 1_segmentation/omnipose/to_process/ (create it if it does not exist). Then double click on `run_segmentation.bat`. A terminal should open which gives update on the progress.


# Install

This package contains several scripts that run in different virtual environments. Batch scripts can be found in subdirectories, which paths need to be updated when installed on a new computer. Installation of specific libraries within these virtualenvs is necessary. Virtual environments necessary to run these scripts include

It is required to install dl_for_mic in a virtual environment, typically using anaconda:

```
conda create -n dl_for_mic
conda activate dl_for_mic
pip install -e path
```

To avoid dependency conflicts, it is preferable to install the different segmentation libraries in different virtual environments. To run the segmentation methods with a batch script, it will be necessary to update the names and paths of virtual environments.

## omnipose
A Virtualenv necessary to run omnipose. Follow the instructions of the official page: https://pypi.org/project/omnipose/
Microsoft Visual C++ is necessary. Last checked, works for omnipose==0.4.4 but not for omnipose>1 For omnipose_custom, you also need to update the path to the custom omnipose model. Based on how it was trained, you also might need to change the parameter 'nchan'.

## cellpose
So far it is expecting a `deepseg` environment. The processing script also needs to know the path to the custom models.IT can be the same environment as dl_for_mic as cellpose is a requirement of dl_for_mic. This may change in a near future.

## delta
Expects a Virtualenv named `delta_env`. Installation is tricky and should follow the official instructions.
